2.75(b)(1)
RECORDS: DEALERS AND EXHIBITORS.
Since the previous inspection on October 19, 2015, records of animal births and deaths were not maintained for the
guinea pigs except for the number of weaned animals each week. Records must be kept on animals for animal
tracking, assessment of the animal care program, and to comply with the regulations. The licensee must ensure that
records of births (newborns) and deaths are kept and maintained on the guinea pigs. Correct from this day forward.
3.31(a)(1)
SANITATION.
During this inspection the floors of the guinea pig enclosures had approximately a 1-2 inch layer of compacted
soiled/wet bedding beneath two inches of newer bedding (hay). The licensee informed the APHIS official that the
guinea pig enclosures were last cleaned two to three weeks ago, but that new hay had been added daily on top of
the soiled bedding. Ineffective cleaning and sanitation exposes the animals to disease hazards such as bacterial,
fungal, and viral diseases. Primary enclosures must be cleaned often enough to prevent an accumulation of
excreta/soiled bedding and must be sanitized at least once every 2 weeks. Correct by ensuring enclosures are
cleaned and sanitized as required. Correct by April 15, 2016.
3.31(b)
SANITATION.
Housekeeping. The floor contains accumulations of hay, dirt, and dust. There are accumulations of dust, dirt and
cobwebs on the ceiling and walls of the animal room. The shelf above the sink with cleaning materials and food
supplements is filthy. Food supplements must be separated from cleaning supplies and stored in an cabinet or
container that protects supplies from contamination or spoilage. Animals facilities must be kept clean to ensure
good quality of the air for the animals and to prevent unnecessary disease risks. Correct by ensuring the premises
are kept clean, including: removing accumulations of dust, cobwebs, scattered hay, and dirt; routinely dusting off
and sanitizing all surfaces on the inside of the facility; separating food supplements and cleaning supplies; and
maintaining a level of general cleanliness to support good animal husbandry and health. Correct by April 16, 2016.
An exit briefing was conducted with the owner.